For software engineers and developers, the algorithm which is most efficient is the one that uses the least amount of
steps. Written in another way, a computer programmer’s most efficient algorithm is the one which uses the least amount
of time, takes up the least amount of space, and operates on the lowest level of complexity.

So, the goal of a programmer is not to add steps to an algorithm; rather, the goal of a programmer is to remove steps
from an algorithm. When there is nothing left to take away, the algorithm is perfect.

The Sliding Window algorithm is one way programmers can move towards simplicity in their code.
This algorithm is exactly as it sounds; a window is formed over some part of data, and this window can slide over the
data to capture different portions of it.

To decipher that cryptic definition, take a look at the following example of a problem that can use a sliding window.

Example Question:
Given an array as input, extract the pair of contiguous integers that have the highest sum of all pairs.
Return the pair as an array.

Contiguous means sequential, which means the elements must be right next to each other to count as a pair.
This is a giant clue that a sliding window may work beautifully with this question.

In the context of this question, contiguous also means that one cannot simply sort the array and return the last two
integers in an array, since we want the pair of contiguous integers which have the highest sum in the array as it is
already ordered.

In general, any problem where the author is asking for any of the following return values can use a sliding window:

1. Minimum value
2. Maximum value
3. Longest value
4. Shortest value
5. K-sized value

Furthermore, a question that uses a list or data type that must be iterated over in sequence is a great candidate for a
sliding window. The previous question also met this criteria, as it had an array input and needed to be iterated over
sequentially.

Lastly, one of the biggest clues that one can use a sliding window is the word contiguous.

A substring is a contiguous set of characters within a string. For the purposes of this question, the substring
cannot contain any duplicate characters.

So, this question is asking for the length of the longest substring of the given string that has no duplicate characters.
This questions checks off nearly all of the criteria mentioned above for using a sliding window. It has:

1, String as input.
2. Contiguous elements requirement.
3. The entire string must be iterated over.
4. The longest substring must be found.

